##2. Basic Types
http://elixir-lang.org/getting-started/basic-types.html


### Atoms
Atoms are constants where their name is their own value. Some languages call there symbols.

### Strings
inserted between double quotes, and they encoded by UTF-8.

### Identifying functions
Functions in elixir are identified by both their name and their `arity`. The arity of a function describes the number of arguments which the function takes.(i.e. `round/1` identifies the function which is named round and takes 1 argument)

### anonymouse function
  ```elixir
  iex> add = fn a, b -> a + b end
  #Function<12.71889879/2 in :erl_eval.expr/5>
  iex> add.(1, 2)
  3
  ```
  - pass a anonymouse function to variable add.
  - invoke a anonymous function must have a dot (.) between the variable and parentheses. The dot ensure there is no ambiguity between calling an anonymous function named `add` and a named function `add/2`.

### list or tuple
- **Lists** are stored in memory as linked lists, meaning each element in the list holds its value and points to the following element. We call each pair of value and pointer a `cons cell`
access the length of a list is linear, need traverse the whole list in order to figure out its size.
- **Tuple** ,are store contiguously in memory. This means getting the tuple by index or accessing an element by index is fast. However, updating or adding elements to tuples is expensive.

Those performance characteristics ditate the usages of those data structures. One very common use case for tuples is to use them return extra function from a function.

Elixir has a simple: the function named `size` is in constant time (i.e. the value is pre-calculated) or `length` if the operation is linear(i.e. calculating the length gets slower as input grows).

## 3. Basic operators
- arithmetic operators. `+`,`-`,`*`,`/`,`div/2`,`rem/2`
- list: `++`, `--`
- String concatention: `<>`
- boolean operators: `or`, `and`, `not`
`or` and `and` are short-circuit operators. They only excute the right side if the left side is not enough to determine the result.

## 4. Pattern matching
`=` is actually a match operator. `^` operator is used to access the previously bound values.
- A variable can **only** be assigned on the left side of `=`
- also can use for destructuring more complex data types.
```elixir
iex> {a, b, c} = {:hello, "world", 42}
{:hello, "world", 42}
iex> a
:hello
```
- The pin operator
Variables in Elixir can be rebound
```elixir
iex> x = 1
1
iex> x = 2
2
```
use the pin operator `^` when you want to pattern match against an existing variables's value rather than rebinding the variable.
```elixir
iex> x = 1
1
iex> ^x = 2
** (MatchError) no match of right hand side value: 2
```
- use underscore `_`, if you don't care about a particular value in pattern.
```elixir
iex> [h | _] = [1, 2, 3]
[1, 2, 3]
iex> h
1
```
- limited :
  - cannot make function calls on the left of a match.
  ```elixir
  iex> [h | _] = [1, 2, 3]
  [1, 2, 3]
  iex> h
  1
  ```

## 5. case, cond and if
`case` `cond` `if` control flow structures.
### case
`case` allow us to compare value against many patterns until we find a matching one.
- `guards` are a way to augment pattern matching with more complexing checks.
```elixir
iex> case {1, 2, 3} do
...>   {1, x, 3} when x > 0 ->
...>     "Will match"
...>   _ ->
...>     "Would match, if guard condition were not satisfied"
...> end
"Will match"
```
The first clause above will only match when `x` is positive.

### cond
In many circumstances, we want to check different conditions and find first one that evaluates to true.In such cases, one may use `cond`.

### if and unless
`if/2` and `unless` which are useful when you need to check for only one condition.

**Keyword lists** play an important role in the language and quiet common in many functions and macros.

## Binaries, strings, and char lists

### UTF-8 and Unicode
A string is a UTF-8 encoded binary.
### Binaries(and bitstrings)

a binaries is a bitstring where the number of bits is divisible by 8.
