* `*`       : next occurrence of the word
* `#`       : last occurrence
* `2G`      : 到第二行
* `/`       : search , press `n` for next , `N` for last
* `o` or `O`: insert in new line
* `x` or `X`: delete character left your cursor.
* `r`       : change characer under cursor, without into insert mode.
* `d`       : delete cmd , `dw` will delete the first word right of the cursor. `d2e` delete two words
* `.`       : repeat last cmd.

SPC-h-T   : evil-tutor

* `u`       : undo
* `C-r` or `C-R`: undo the undo's

* `:!`    : 执行外部命令

* `A`     : append to the end of the line.
* `R`     : replace the remainder text. (Good !)
* `C-u/d` :向上/下翻页


~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
                               LESSON 1 SUMMARY


  1. The cursor is moved using either the arrow keys or the hjkl keys.
         h (left)        j (down)       k (up)            l (right)

  2. To exit Emacs type:  <ESC> :qa! <ENTER>  to trash all changes.
                OR type:  <ESC> :wqa <ENTER>  to save the changes.

  4. To delete a character under the cursor in normal state type:  x

  5. To insert text at the cursor while in normal state type:
         i
         type in text
         <ESC>

NOTE: Pressing <ESC> will place you in normal state or will cancel
      an unwanted and partially completed command.

Now continue with Lesson 2.


~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
                               LESSON 2 SUMMARY


  1. To delete from the cursor to the end of a word type:  dw

  2. To delete from the cursor to the end of a line type:  d$

  3. To delete a whole line type:  dd

  4. The format for a command in normal state is:

       [number]  command  object    OR    command  [number]  object
     where:
       number - is how many times to repeat the command
       command - is what to do, such as  d  for delete
       object - is what the command should act upon, such as  w  for word,
                $  for "to the end of line", etc.

  5. To undo previous actions, type:  u
     To undo the undo's type:  CTRL-R


~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
                               LESSON 3 SUMMARY


  1. To replace text that has already been deleted, type  p  this puts the
     deleted text AFTER the cursor (if a line was deleted it will go on the
     line below the cursor).

  2. To replace the character under the cursor, type  r  and then the
     character which will replace the original.

  3. The change command allows you to change the specified object from the
     cursor to the end of the object.  eg. Type  cw  to change from the
     cursor to the end of the word,  c$  to change to the end of a line.

  4. The format for change is:

          [number]  c  object    OR    c  [number]  object

Now go on to the next lesson.


~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
                               LESSON 4 SUMMARY


  1. gg  moves to the beginning of the buffer.
     G   moves to the end of the buffer.
     :   followed by a line number then  <ENTER>  moves to that line number.

  2. Typing  /  followed by a phrase searches FORWARD for the phrase.
     Typing  ?  followed by a phrase searches BACKWARD for the phrase.
     After a search type  n  to find the next occurrence in the same direction
     or  N  to search in the opposite direction.

  3. Typing  %  while the cursor is on a  (,),[,],{, or }  locates its
     matching pair.

  4. To substitute new for the first old on a line type  :s/old/new
     To substitute new for all 'old's on a line type     :s/old/new/g
     To substitute phrases between two line #'s type     :#,#s/old/new/g
     To substitute all occurrences in the file type      :%s/old/new/g
     To ask for confirmation each time add 'c'           :%s/old/new/gc


~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
                               LESSON 5 SUMMARY


  1.  :!command  executes an external command.

      Some useful examples are:
          :!ls  or  :!dir                 -  shows a directory listing.
          :!rm  or  :!del FILENAME        -  removes file FILENAME.

  2.  :w FILENAME  writes the current buffer to disk with file name FILENAME.

  3.  :#,#w FILENAME  saves the lines # through # in file FILENAME.

  4.  :r FILENAME  retrieves disk file FILENAME and inserts it into the
      current buffer following the cursor position.


~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
                               LESSON 6 SUMMARY


  1. Typing  o        opens a line BELOW the cursor and places the cursor on the open
     line in insert state.
     Typing a capital  O  opens the line ABOVE the line the cursor is on.

  2. Type an  a  to insert text AFTER the character the cursor is on.
     Typing a capital  A  automatically appends text to the end of the line.

  3. Typing a capital  R  enters Replace mode until  <ESC>  is pressed to exit.


~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
